When we think of events
that will soon happen,
such as the great tribulation
and Armageddon,
wouldn’t you agree that we need
to build our faith now?
In fact, if you turn with me
to Ezekiel chapter 38
(you may want to put a marker there),
verses 14 and 15 describe the time
when God’s people will experience
an all-out assault by those determined
to destroy pure worship.
Verse 14 mentions that Gog
—or, as we know, a coalition of nations—
will come against God’s people.
And though verse 18 states that on that day
Jehovah’s “great rage will flare up”
against his enemies,
the question is,
Will you and I remain confident
in Jehovah’s promise to rescue his people?
We can build our faith
by considering another aspect of creation,
the awesome power of wind and water.
Please allow the following video
to strengthen your faith.
Hail
—though it is made of ice,
it is very different from snow.
Hail usually forms in warm weather
when turbulent air produces thunderstorms
with powerful updrafts.
Those updrafts can pull a piece of dust
or ice high into the cloud,
where water freezes around it.
Each trip up into the cloud
adds a layer of ice
and waits
until it becomes
a hailstone that is heavy enough to fall.
Hailstorms can be powerfully destructive.
One deadly storm dropped hailstones
weighing more than one kilogram (2 lbs) each.
Jehovah used hail to demonstrate his power
and defend his people,
such as during
the seventh plague against Egypt.
When Joshua fought the Amorites,
Jehovah caused a great hailstorm,
and more Amorites died from the hailstones
than in battle.
Hail is also mentioned among the elements
that Jehovah will use in the future
against those who attack his people.
“Have you seen the storehouses of the hail,
“which I have reserved
for the . . . day of battle and war?”
As the video showed,
wind and water in the form of hail
are powerful and can
at times be very destructive.
For example, a report in Awake!
magazine some years ago reported
that at times humans are hurt
—even killed—
by hailstones weighing
as much as one and a half pounds
and as big as five inches in diameter.
That’s larger than this ball.
And there are scientific reports
of even larger hailstones.
But as we know, Jehovah can use wind
and water to fight for his people.
Why, he is the Source
of these natural forces,
and he can control them perfectly.
Please turn with me to Psalm 147,
and let’s notice that together
—Psalm 147—
we’ll look at verses 17 and 18
for the assurance that Jehovah
is the Source of these natural forces,
Psalm 147:17:
“He hurls down his hailstones
like morsels of bread.
“Who can withstand his cold?
“He sends out his word, and they melt.
He makes his wind blow,
and the waters flow.”
Did you notice to whom
these natural forces belong?
Verse 17 speaks of “his  hailstones.”
Verse 18 says: “He makes his  wind blow.”
Yes, Jehovah is the Source,
and he can control them.
He proved this in the past.
Do you remember the examples
given in the video?
One was the account in Joshua chapter 10
when the Israelites
were fighting the Amorites.
Verse 11 states that “while [the Amorites]
were fleeing from Israel . . . ,
“Jehovah hurled great hailstones
“from the sky on them . . . ,
and they perished.
“In fact, more died from the hail
than from the sword of the Israelites.”
If Jehovah can create
such powerful elements and control them,
that should build our faith.
It should convince us that he’ll be able
to use these powerful elements
in the future when he defends
his people at Armageddon.
The video partially quoted
a scripture that emphasizes that point.
Let’s read it together—Job chapter 38,
Job 38,
and notice with me verses 22 and 23.
Job 38:22:
“Have you entered
the storehouses of the snow,
“or have you seen
the storehouses of the hail,
“which I have reserved
for the time of distress,
for the day of battle and war?”
Did you notice that Jehovah
says he ‘has storehouses of hail
reserved for the day of battle’?
Psalm 135:7 mentions ‘storehouses of wind.’
In these verses, Jehovah speaks
of things he’s reserved under his control
for special purposes.
How can this knowledge
of Jehovah’s storehouses build our faith?
When we’re attacked during
the great tribulation by God’s enemies,
no matter how powerful
or threatening they may seem,
they can’t possibly survive Jehovah’s anger.
For example, if we go back
to Ezekiel chapter 38
and glance at verse 22,
we see things Jehovah will use
against those enemies of pure worship.
Besides pestilence, fire, and sulfur,
notice what else Jehovah will use.
In the middle of the verse, it says:
“I will rain down a torrential downpour
and hailstones.”
Yes, Jehovah will use water.
He may use hailstones of undisclosed size
to destroy those wicked humans.
Now, during that time,
will we need to fear the natural elements?
Not at all.
Second Peter 2:9 assures us:
“Jehovah knows how to rescue people
of godly devotion out of trial.”
Jehovah will perfectly control
the natural elements
so his people are not harmed.
This knowledge about the awesome power
of wind and water
should make us powerful by faith.
It should build our faith not only in
Jehovah’s ability to protect us in the future
but also in his protection now.
For instance, we have no reason to fear bans
or threats from worldly governments.
The One who controls the storehouses
of the wind and hail is our Helper.
According to Hebrews 13:6,
we do not need to “be afraid.”
That’s true now,
and it will be true in the future
when Jehovah brings the natural elements
at his disposal against our enemies.
Notice his assurance
at the end of Ezekiel chapter 38;
notice verse 23:
“And I will certainly magnify myself
and sanctify myself
“and make myself known
before the eyes of many nations;
and they will have
to know that I am Jehovah.”
What a thrilling time that will be!
As these enemies are defeated,
they will know that it is
Jehovah God who is bringing
destruction upon them.
May our anticipation of that happy outcome
and our study of creation build our faith now
as we confidently look forward
to Jehovah’s complete victory.
Brother Robert Luccioni,
a helper to the Publishing Committee,
will now present
the next talk of this symposium,
“Use Creation to Build Your Faith
—Sea Creatures.”